README.md, before:

# LearningLocker on CentOS7

[Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/) and [Ansible](http://www.ansible.com/) scripts to provision one (or more) [CentOS7](https://www.centos.org/) machines to use [LearningLocker](http://learninglocker.net/). This LearningLocker installation will depend on [Apache2](http://httpd.apache.org/) and [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.org/).

Note that there is another Vagrant and Ansible script to provision one Ubuntu VM with LearningLocker using [nginx](http://nginx.com/) which can be found [here](https://github.com/rael9/learninglocker-vagrant).

## Configuration

Copy _vars.secret.yml.edit_ file to  _vars.secret.yml_ and edit it following the instructions detailed in the file.

Optionally, you might want to edit the files located in the _group\_vars_ or _vagrant_ directories.

## Typical usage

In this section I explain three ways to install LearningLocker:

 1. Create one VM machine with LL installed
 2. Create two VM machines with LL installed: one for the webserver and the other for the database.
 3. Install LL in existing machines

### Use case 1. Create one VM machine

To create a virtual machine and provision it with LearningLocker, simply run:

    vagrant up

If the installation is completed successfully, you will be able to:

 * Access LL through your web browser: http://192.168.35.2
 * Connect to the machine: ```vagrant ssh```

### Use case 2. Create two VM machines

To create a virtual machine and provision it with LearningLocker, simply run:

    MACHINES='./vagrant/two_machines' vagrant up

If the installation is completed successfully, you will be able to:

 * Access LL through your web browser: http://192.168.35.3
 * Connect to the machines:
  * ```vagrant ssh ll-web```
  * ```vagrant ssh ll-db```

### Use case 3. Install it in existing machine(s)

For this, you will need to create an inventory file specifying the machines that you will use.

Then, run Ansible as follows.

    ansible-playbook --private-key=[path_to_private_key] --user=[remote_user] -i [path_to_inventory_file] main.yml

If the MongoDB will not run in the same machine as the web server, you should specify it in the following way:

    ansible-playbook --extra-vars={"mongodb_host":"[ip-of-the-machine]"} (...)

To only provision the webserver run:

    ansible-playbook (...) learninglocker.yml

To only provision the database run:

    ansible-playbook (...) database.yml


# Acknowledgements

This playbook was made as part of the [FORGE project](http://ict-forge.eu/).

To create the Ansible playbook, the steps described by [David Pesce](https://gist.github.com/davidpesce) [here](https://gist.github.com/davidpesce/7d6e1b81594ecbc72311) were a great help.
Therefore, part of the credit goes to him.

Commit message:

Mentioning the sample inventory files

README.md, after:

# LearningLocker on CentOS7

[Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/) and [Ansible](http://www.ansible.com/) scripts to provision one (or more) [CentOS7](https://www.centos.org/) machines to use [LearningLocker](http://learninglocker.net/). This LearningLocker installation will depend on [Apache2](http://httpd.apache.org/) and [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.org/).

Note that there is another Vagrant and Ansible script to provision one Ubuntu VM with LearningLocker using [nginx](http://nginx.com/) which can be found [here](https://github.com/rael9/learninglocker-vagrant).

## Configuration

Copy _vars.secret.yml.edit_ file to  _vars.secret.yml_ and edit it following the instructions detailed in the file.

Optionally, you might want to edit the files located in the _group\_vars_ or _vagrant_ directories.

## Typical usage

In this section I explain three ways to install LearningLocker:

 1. Create one VM machine with LL installed
 2. Create two VM machines with LL installed: one for the webserver and the other for the database.
 3. Install LL in existing machines

### Use case 1. Create one VM machine

To create a virtual machine and provision it with LearningLocker, simply run:

    vagrant up

If the installation is completed successfully, you will be able to:

 * Access LL through your web browser: http://192.168.35.2
 * Connect to the machine: ```vagrant ssh```

### Use case 2. Create two VM machines

To create a virtual machine and provision it with LearningLocker, simply run:

    MACHINES='./vagrant/two_machines' vagrant up

If the installation is completed successfully, you will be able to:

 * Access LL through your web browser: http://192.168.35.3
 * Connect to the machines:
  * ```vagrant ssh ll-web```
  * ```vagrant ssh ll-db```

### Use case 3. Install it in existing machine(s)

First, you need to create an inventory file specifying the machines that you will use.
The _inventories_ directory contains some sample files which can be used as inventory templates.

Then, run Ansible as follows.

    ansible-playbook --private-key=[path_to_private_key] --user=[remote_user] -i [path_to_inventory_file] main.yml

If the MongoDB will not run in the same machine as the web server, you should specify it in the following way:

    ansible-playbook --extra-vars={"mongodb_host":"[ip-of-the-machine]"} (...)

To provision only the web server run:

    ansible-playbook (...) learninglocker.yml

To provision only the database run:

    ansible-playbook (...) database.yml


# Acknowledgements

This playbook was made as part of the [FORGE project](http://ict-forge.eu/).

To create the Ansible playbook, the steps described by [David Pesce](https://gist.github.com/davidpesce) [here](https://gist.github.com/davidpesce/7d6e1b81594ecbc72311) were a great help.
Therefore, part of the credit goes to him.
